OAuth: Added support for role mapping for GitLab accounts. (#30025)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/auth/gitlab.md

http://203.0.113.31:3000/login/gitlab
```

> Finally, select _read_api_as the_Scope_and submit the form. Note that if you're

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, select _read_api as the _Scope_ and submit the form. Note that if you're
```

not going to use GitLab groups for authorization (i.e. not setting

> `allowed_groups`, see below), you can select_read_user_ instead of _read_api_as
> the_Scope_, thus giving a more restricted access to your GitLab API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`allowed_groups`, see below), you can select _read_user_ instead of _read_api as
the _Scope_, thus giving a more restricted access to your GitLab API.
```

http://203.0.113.31:3000/login/gitlab
```

> Finally, select _read_api as the _Scope_ and submit the form. Note that if you're

Reviewer 2: I suspect we want to keep `read_api` and `Scope` as italics here:
```suggestion
Finally, select _read_api_ as the _Scope_ and submit the form. Note that if you're
```

not going to use GitLab groups for authorization (i.e. not setting

> `allowed_groups`, see below), you can select _read_user_ instead of _read_api as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`allowed_groups`, see below), you can select _read_user_ instead of _read_api_ as
```

in the URL of the group or subgroup.

> Here's a complete example with `allow_sign_up` enabled, and access limited to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's a complete example with `allow_sign_up` enabled, with access limited to
```

> the `example` and `foo/bar` groups it also promotes all GitLab Admins to Grafana Admins:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the `example` and `foo/bar` groups. The example also promotes all GitLab Admins to Grafana Admins:
```

```ini
[auth.gitlab]
enabled = true
allow_sign_up = true
client_id = GITLAB_APPLICATION_ID
client_secret = GITLAB_SECRET
scopes = read_api
auth_url = https://gitlab.com/oauth/authorize
token_url = https://gitlab.com/oauth/token
api_url = https://gitlab.com/api/v4
allowed_groups = example, foo/bar
role_attribute_path = is_admin && 'Admin' || 'Viewer'
```

### Map roles

> Grafana can attempt to do role mapping through GitLab OAuth. In order to achieve this, Grafana checks for the presence of a role using the [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) specified via the `role_attribute_path` configuration option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grafana can attempt role mapping through GitLab OAuth. To do so, Grafana checks for the presence of a role using the [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) specified using the `role_attribute_path` configuration option.
```

> Grafana uses JSON obtained from querying GitLab's API [`/api/v4/user`](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/users.html#list-current-user-for-normal-users) endpoint for the path lookup. The result after evaluating the `role_attribute_path` JMESPath expression needs to be a valid Grafana role, i.e. `Viewer`, `Editor` or `Admin`. Refer to [Organization roles]({{< relref "../permissions/organization_roles.md" >}}) for more information about roles and permissions in Grafana.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grafana uses JSON obtained from querying GitLab's API [`/api/v4/user`](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/users.html#list-current-user-for-normal-users) endpoint for the path lookup. The result after evaluating the `role_attribute_path` JMESPath expression needs to be a valid Grafana role; `Viewer`, `Editor`, or `Admin`. Refer to [Organization roles]({{< relref "../permissions/organization_roles.md" >}}) for more information about roles and permissions in Grafana.
```

> Grafana uses JSON obtained from querying GitLab's API [`/api/v4/user`](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/users.html#list-current-user-for-normal-users) endpoint for the path lookup. The result after evaluating the `role_attribute_path` JMESPath expression needs to be a valid Grafana role, i.e. `Viewer`, `Editor` or `Admin`. Refer to [Organization roles]({{< relref "../permissions/organization_roles.md" >}}) for more information about roles and permissions in Grafana.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the path lookup, Grafana uses JSON obtained from querying GitLab's API [`/api/v4/user`](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/users.html#list-current-user-for-normal-users) endpoint. The result of evaluating the `role_attribute_path` JMESPath expression must be a valid Grafana role, for example, `Viewer`, `Editor` or `Admin`. For more information about roles and permissions in Grafana, refer to [Organization roles]({{< relref "../permissions/organization_roles.md" >}}).
```

An example Query could look like the following:

```bash
role_attribute_path = is_admin && 'Admin' || 'Viewer'
```

> This would allow you every GitLab Admin to be an Admin in Grafana.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows every GitLab Admin to be an Admin in Grafana.
```

allow_sign_up = true
client_id = GITLAB_APPLICATION_ID
client_secret = GITLAB_SECRET
scopes = read_api
auth_url = https://gitlab.com/oauth/authorize
token_url = https://gitlab.com/oauth/token
api_url = https://gitlab.com/api/v4
allowed_groups = example, foo/bar
```

### Map roles

> Grafana can attempt to do role mapping through Gitlab OAuth. In order to achieve this, Grafana checks for the presence of a role using the [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) specified via the `role_attribute_path` configuration option.

Author: ```suggestion
Grafana can attempt to do role mapping through GitLab OAuth. In order to achieve this, Grafana checks for the presence of a role using the [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) specified via the `role_attribute_path` configuration option.
```

> Grafana uses JSON obtained from querying the `/api/v4/user` endpoint for the path lookup. The result after evaluating the `role_attribute_path` JMESPath expression needs to be a valid Grafana role, i.e. `Viewer`, `Editor` or `Admin`. Refer to [Organization roles]({{< relref "../permissions/organization_roles.md" >}}) for more information about roles and permissions in Grafana.

Author: ```suggestion
Grafana uses JSON obtained from querying GitLab's API [`/api/v4/user`](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/users.html#list-current-user-for-normal-users) endpoint for the path lookup. The result after evaluating the `role_attribute_path` JMESPath expression needs to be a valid Grafana role, i.e. `Viewer`, `Editor` or `Admin`. Refer to [Organization roles]({{< relref "../permissions/organization_roles.md" >}}) for more information about roles and permissions in Grafana.
```

An example Query could look like the following:

```bash

> role_attribute_path = is_admin && 'Admin' || 'Viewer'

Author: **Suggestion** What are your thoughts on copying this great example into the first `[auth.gitlab]` example above https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/30025/files#diff-1d2cd961688172e12c62c2902ccbe4a45e2f990d82fda8e48516099b58b2b9e5L53? :thinking: 

**Question** Do you think this JMESPath query could be the default value in the default `[auth.gitlab]` configuration sample? :shrug: It's also a question for other reviewers I feel.

Reviewer 4: Yeah, sounds great to me! Probably this is the most wanted query.

```

> This would allow you every Gitlab Admin to be an Admin in Grafana.

Author: ```suggestion
This would allow you every GitLab Admin to be an Admin in Grafana.
```
